docs/Cairo-1.0-environment-setup (#440)
starknet-io/starknet-docs: components/StarkNet/modules/getting_started/pages/environment_setup.adoc

* xref:#_install_the_prerequisites[Install the prerequisites]
* xref:#_install_the_additional_dependencies[Install the additional dependencies]
* xref:#_install_the_cairo_cli[Install the Cairo CLI]
* xref:#_install_the_cairo_compiler[Install the Cairo compiler]

## Install the prerequisites

We recommend using a link:https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html[Python virtual environment]
for your development work.

To create and enter the Python virtual environment, you have two options:

* xref:#_option_1__activate_your_cairo_virtual_environment_manually[Activate your Cairo virtual environment manually]
* xref:#_option_2__use_the_python_environment_manager[Use the Python environment manager]

### Option 1 - Activate your Cairo virtual environment manually

Run the following two commands to manually create and activate a Cairo virtual environment:

[,Bash]
----
python3.9 -m venv ~/cairo_venv
source ~/cairo_venv/bin/activate
----

After creating and activating the virtual environment, you should see `(cairo_venv)` in the command line prompt, indicating that the virtual environment is active, for example:

> [,Bash]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,Bash]
```
Although AsciiDoc implicitly understands the source block heading without the `source` keyword, it's good practice to be as explicit as possible.

----
(cairo_venv)
----

### Option 2 - Use the Python environment manager

> Alternatively, you can use the Python environment manager to create a virtual environment. Simply run the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, you can use the Python environment manager to create a virtual environment:
```

Avoid saying things like "Simply do this" or "Just do that" because if something is not simple for a particular user, it can make them feel stupid, and for users for whom it _is_ simple, adding the word doesn't have any benefit.

[,Bash]
----
curl https://pyenv.run | bash
----

> Now add the following to your `.bashrc` or `.zshrc` file:

Reviewer: I don't see anything indicating that using a bash or zsh shell is a prerequisite. If it is, then you need to explicitly state it.

[,Bash]
----
export PATH="$HOME/.pyenv/bin:$PATH"
eval "$(pyenv init -)"
eval "$(pyenv virtualenv-init -)"
----

Restart your terminal and run the following commands:

[,Bash]
----
pyenv install 3.9.0
pyenv virtualenv 3.9.0 cairo_venv
pyenv activate cairo_venv
----

> you should see `(cairo_venv)` in the command line prompt, indicating that the virtual environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should see `(cairo_venv)` in the command line prompt, indicating that the virtual environment
```
Good that you state what the user should see. Signposts are helpful.

is active, for example:

[,Bash]
----
(cairo_venv)
----

> ## Install the additional dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Installing additional dependencies
```

Depending on your operating system, you may need to install the following, additional dependencies:

> |===

Reviewer: I mentioned to Yuki that table contents should wrap by default, not scroll. You should mention it as well.

|Dependency |Description

|`libgmp3-dev`/`gmp`|A software development library package for the GNU Multiple Precision Arithmetic
Library.
|`ECDSA` |(Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm) is a digital signature algorithm that is based on the mathematics of elliptic curves.
|`FastECDSA`|An open-source software library that provides an implementation of the Elliptic Curve
Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) for use in cryptographic applications. It is designed to be fast, efficient, and easy to use, and is written in the Python programming language.
|`SymPy` |A Python library for symbolic mathematics.
|===

> ### On Linux Ubuntu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Linux
```
You should state what the OS prerequisites are as well. If this has only been tested on a particular version of an OS, then state that, perhaps indicating a minimum version. Is only Ubuntu supported? If not, then you should state how to install on the major distros, such as Red Hat and Suse, or at the very least state that your example uses Ubuntu, but if using a different distro, use that appropriate package manager for that distro.

Also if Windows users are supposed to use a Linux shell, then you should state that as well.

> On Ubuntu, you will need to run the following command:

Reviewer: Don't just say "run this command" without saying what it does. What does this command install? If someone is using a different distro, they'll need to know what to look for.

[,Bash]
----
sudo apt install -y libgmp3-dev
----

> ### On macOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== macOS
```

On macOS, you can use Homebrew:

[,Bash]
----
brew install gmp
----

After that, you need to install the following dependencies (Linux and Mac):

[,Bash]
----
pip install ecdsa fastecdsa sympy
----

## Install the Cairo CLI

> The Cairo CLI allows you to interact with Starknet via command line interface. If you had

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can interact with Starknet using the Cairo command line interface. If  
```

> Cairo installed previously, uninstall it and install the latest version:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a previous version of Cairo is installed, uninstall it and install the latest version:
```
